Test PR for review composer (#35784)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/faq/updating-to-distribution-metrics-faq.md

> ---

Author: Either confirm the removal is intentional (in which case this stays as-is), or add `further_reading` entries pointing to a more relevant page — for example, the Distributions docs or the Metrics Summary page.

title: Update to Distribution Metrics Workflow FAQ
is_beta: true
---

> ## Overview

Author: This section violates several editorial standards at once:
     - The heading "Overview" is on the explicit list of vague headings to avoid (editorial reference: "Use specific, informative headings — not vague labels like 'Overview,' 'Details,' or 'Additional information.'").
     - The body is marketing speak: "Experience the power of," "next-generation," "revolutionary," "transforms the way," "unlocking unprecedented levels," "exciting change," "empowers your observability journey." Datadog voice avoids hyperbolic superlatives and marketing phrases.
     - The paragraph also has classic AI-generated-content markers — generic phrasing that could apply to anything, and a trailing participial phrase ("unlocking unprecedented levels of insight and control").
     - It buries the lede. The next heading ("Why has my distribution metrics page been deprecated?") is the actual entry point a reader needs.

**Suggested fix:** Delete lines 6-8 entirely. The first H2 ("Why has my distribution metrics page been deprecated?") is the right opening for an FAQ.

Experience the power of Datadog's next-generation distribution metrics pipeline. This revolutionary update transforms the way you interact with your metrics, unlocking unprecedented levels of insight and control. Read on to discover how this exciting change empowers your observability journey.

## Why has my distribution metrics page been deprecated?

> A new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics has been released by Datadog --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Author: ```suggestion
Restore the original active construction: `Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics
```

> A new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics has been released by Datadog --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Author: Editorial reference: "Prefer active. Passive is acceptable when the agent is unknown or unimportant." Here the agent (Datadog) is named, so active voice is required. The previous wording was correct.

```suggestion
Revert to: "Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics ---"
```

> A new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics has been released by Datadog --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Author: This changes a previously active-voice sentence into passive voice ("has been released by Datadog"), which is weaker and wordier than the original.

```suggestion
Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.
```

> A new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics has been released by Datadog --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Author: Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics. This unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

> A new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics has been released by Datadog --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Author: This rewrites an active-voice sentence into passive voice for no reason, making it wordier and less direct.

```suggestion
Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics This unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.
```

> A new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics has been released by Datadog --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Author: This rewrites an active-voice sentence into passive voice for no reason, making it wordier and less direct.

```suggestion
Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics. This unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.
```

> A new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics has been released by Datadog --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Author: The sentence was changed from active to passive voice, pushing the actor ("Datadog") into a trailing phrase. Active voice is clearer here.

```suggestion
Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics. This unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.
```

> ## How does this new pipeline for Distributions affect me? 

Author: ```suggestion
Lowercase "distribution" in those headings if you want to consolidate the fix into this PR.
```

> ## How does this new pipeline for Distributions affect me? 

Author: Lowercase "distribution" in those headings if you want to consolidate the fix into this PR.

  - Boolean filtered queries are now available with distribution metrics with percentiles, so that you can write queries like: `p99:request_latency_distribution{app:A OR app:B} by {app}`.
- **Easier tag configuration and percentile aggregation workflows**:
  - All tag configuration-percentile aggregations are managed in one centralized location on the [Metrics Summary][1] page.

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: ```suggestion
'Use the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.'
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: ```suggestion
'Use the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.'
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: "Utilize" is on the words-to-avoid list; also flagged as jargon.

```suggestion
"Use the **Manage Tags** button on the Metrics Summary details side panel..." (Note: also worth using bold rather than quotation marks for the UI element, to match the styling used elsewhere on the same page — see finding 7.)
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: Other references to the same button on this page use bold (`**Manage Tags**`) — for example, line 39. Editorial reference: docs use bold (not quotation marks) for UI elements. Consistency matters within a page.

```suggestion
`**Manage Tags** button` (and the same fix would apply to "Include" on line 22 if you're cleaning up while you're in there, though that change is outside the diff).
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: "Utilize" is unnecessarily formal where "use" communicates the same instruction more plainly.

```suggestion
- Use the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: "Utilize" is unnecessarily formal; plain "use" communicates the same thing more directly.

```suggestion
  - Use the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: "Utilize" is unnecessarily formal; plain, simple words are preferred in documentation.

```suggestion
  - Use the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.

Author: "Utilize" is unnecessarily formal; plain, simple words are preferred in documentation.

```suggestion
  - Use the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
```

>   - To add percentile aggregations to your distribution, navigate to the new percentiles section on the side panel, click *Edit* and select "Include" for percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined on your baseline distribution. You'll no longer need to specify an additional configuration rule.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
```

- **More intuitive number of custom metrics from distributions with percentiles**:

>   The number of custom metrics emitted from additional percentile aggregations is no longer 5 percentile timeseries for every potentially queryable tag value combination. The new number of custom metrics emitted from distributions with percentiles is now counted more similarly to our other metric types:

Author: ```suggestion
  The number of custom metrics emitted from additional percentile aggregations is no longer 5 percentile timeseries for every potentially queryable tag value combination. The new number of custom metrics emitted from distributions with percentiles is now counted more similarly to Datadog's other metric types:
```

>   - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
>   - To add percentile aggregations to your distribution, navigate to the new percentiles section on the side panel, click *Edit* and select "Include" for percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined on your baseline distribution. You'll no longer need to specify an additional configuration rule.
> - **More intuitive number of custom metrics from distributions with percentiles**:
>   The number of custom metrics emitted from additional percentile aggregations is no longer 5 percentile timeseries for every potentially queryable tag value combination. The new number of custom metrics emitted from distributions with percentiles is now counted more similarly to our other metric types:

Author: ```suggestion
  - Utilize the "Manage Tags" button on the **Metrics Summary** details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
  - To add percentile aggregations to your distribution, navigate to the new percentiles section on the side panel, click *Edit* and select `Include` for percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined on your baseline distribution. You'll no longer need to specify an additional configuration rule.
- **Easier to understand the number of custom metrics from distributions with percentiles**:
  The number of custom metrics emitted from additional percentile aggregations is no longer 5 percentile timeseries for every potentially queryable tag value combination. The new number of custom metrics emitted from distributions with percentiles is now counted more similarly to our other metric types:
```

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/configure-tags.png" alt="Configure tags">}}

> After clicking the **Manage Tags** button, which tags are queryable on a particular metric can be configured. You can preview the new number of indexed custom metrics from your tag configuration before saving it.

Author: ```suggestion
Restore the original: `Click the **Manage Tags** button to configure which tags are queryable on a particular metric.
```

> After clicking the **Manage Tags** button, which tags are queryable on a particular metric can be configured. You can preview the new number of indexed custom metrics from your tag configuration before saving it.

Author: test inline suggestion

> After clicking the **Manage Tags** button, which tags are queryable on a particular metric can be configured. You can preview the new number of indexed custom metrics from your tag configuration before saving it.

Author: ```suggestion
After clicking the **Manage Tags** button, you can configure the queryable tags on a particular metric. You can preview the new number of indexed custom metrics from your tag configuration before saving it.
```
